**Participants**

Teresia Olsson – HZB (Chair)  
Patrick Madela - Synchrotron SOLEIL (Deputy)   
Markus Ries – HZB (Deputy)  
Konstantinos Paraschou - DESY (Deputy)  
Stephen Molloy - MAX IV (Deputy)   
Simone Maria Liuzzo  
Marco Apollonio – MAX IV   
Laurent Nadolski - Synchrotron SOLEIL  
Ronja Grünke – HZB (Minutes)  

Not available:
Simon White - ESRF
Ilya Agapov – DESY


**Agenda:**
<ol>
	<li>Approve minutes from last meeting</li>  
	<li>Election of maintainer: Marco Apollonio</li>  
	<li>Report from maintainers (Teresia)</li>    
	<li>Relation between pyAML and Accelerator toolbox (Simon)</li>   
	<li>Approval process for specification (Teresia)</li> 
	<li>Next workshop at SOLEIL (Laurent & Teresia)</li> 
	<li>Training (Teresia)</li> 
	<li>Date for next community zoom meeting (Teresia)</li>
	<li>Next meeting time</li>
</ol> 




**1. Approve minutes from last meeting**  
- approved with no notes

**2. Election of maintainer: Marco Apollonio**   
- approved with no notes 
	
**3. Report from maintainers (Teresia):**   
- The roles and responsibilites of the positions Coordinator, WG Core, WG Testing and Secretary has not been fully agreed on.
- Markus Ries will support the group in mapping out the organizational structure during the setup phase.
- The action list that was agreed upon in the last meeting of the group still needs to be delivered. Teresia will remind them. 
	

**4. Relation between pyAML and Accelerator Toolbox (Simone):**  
- there are features in pyAT that might be needed in the core
- It was decided that:
	- pyAT will become a requirement for pyAML.
	- Inititally, no abstraction of the simulation engine should be done. Only pyAT should be used.
	- The abstraction can be added at a later point. It is important to consider that people should not need a pyAT lattice for the abstraction. 
	
	
**5. Approval process for specification (Teresia):**
- Pocess for approving the specification documents. 
	- document should evolve with the code according to needs as a "living document"
	- Latest state should be sent out for feedback before the next workshop, where it will be presented within the milestone and as a core information source going forwards. 
	- An FAQ on the Git-Webpage can link to the documents
		
	
**6. Next workshop at SOLEIL (Laurent will talk to Vadim and make a proposal):**
- Date: Feb 2026. Save the Date should be sent as fast as possible
- Timeframe - 2 work days of program into 3 days, or different format?
- Content:
		- Present use case,
 		- Prototype
 		- Status of the documents,
		 - Working groups for hackathon.
		 - In-person meeting of the steering committee.
- Options for hybrid participation - Zoom with breaktout rooms?
- Funding - no COST funding this time. Funding from LEAPS or participation fees might be considered,
- Scientific Committe should be set up before the meeting - should it be the Steering Committee? 
		
		
**7. Training (Teresia):**
At the last workshop a preliminary list of required training was put together. How do we proceed with this?  
	- Control System: Teresia to arrange it for the next community zoom meeting.   
 	- pyAT: online training? - Simone to prepare it for the afternoon last day of the workshop in a hybrid format, for our people and interested external people.  
	
	
**8. Date for next community zoom meeting (Teresia):**  
Suggested date: Thursday 4 September 2025  
	- No objections  
	
**9. Next meeting time:**  
Next meeting is planned to 18 July 2025 11.00-12.00 CEST.  
	- No objections   
