Agenda:

- Approve minutes from last meeting

- Report from maintainers (Jean-Luc):

  Role and working group descriptions. What are their plans to do next.

- Relation between pyAML and Accelerator toolbox (Simon):

  Jean-Luc says there are features in pyAT that might be needed in the core and wants input on if the core should be allowed to import accelerator toolbox or not.

- Approval process for specification (Teresia):

  We should discuss the process for approving the specification documents. Who needs to do it? When?

- Next workshop at SOLEIL (Laurent & Teresia):

  - Dates
  - Funding
  - Content
  - Options for hybrid participation (e.g. is it possible to use Zoom events?)
 
- Training (Teresia):

  At the last workshop a preliminary list of required training was put together. How do we proceed with this?

- Date for next community zoom meeting (Teresia):

  Suggested date: Thursday 4 September 2025

- Next meeting time:

  Next meeting is planned to 18 July 2025 11.00-12.00 CEST.
