Agenda:

- Approve minutes from last meeting

- Election of maintainer: Alexandre Moutardier

- Report from maintainers (Teresia)

- Visibility of meeting minutes (Laurent)

- Invitations to steering committee meetings (Teresia)

- Bluesky workshop @ DESY in November (Teresia):

  There is going to be a workshop at DESY in November targeted to the whole community independent of control system. Teresia wants to submit an abstract for a talk about pyAML to inform about our project and see if we can get input on how to make an implementation which fits our requirements.

  Here is the indico page for more details:
  https://indico.desy.de/event/49932/

  We should also discuss what our requirements actually are. Current suggestion:
  - Implementation needs to be independent of Bluesky so no lab is forced to use it.
  - For the labs who want Bluesky compatibility that should work seamlessly for the users.
  - We still want applications that are sharable between labs despite this.

- Next meeting time:

  Next meeting is planned to 15 August 2025 11.00-12.00 CEST.
  
- Approve draft of minutes
