**Report from steering committee meeting 21 November 2025**

1. **Status of the pyAML workshop at SOLEIL in February 2026**  
An email will be send out to the community to announce it.  
Survey about training will be sent out next week.

3. **Agenda for community meeting**  
A preliminary agenda is available. There will be talks about Pyapas, PALS and pySC.

4. **Report from ROCK-IT workshop**  
Teresia gave a presentation about our project at the ROCK-IT workshop.  
There are areas where work going on at the beamline side is of interest to our project.  
They develop their software in an ecosystem where labs can pick and choose which parts they want to use and integrate their own lab-specific tools. This sounds like an approach that also would be of use for our project.  
Next maintainers' meeting there will be a presentation about the TANGO implementation in ophyd-async. The steering committee see no problem in developing a plugin for using ophyd-async devices but it is another question if we should base our project on it.
This is to be discussed after the presentation at the maintainers' meeting.

5. **Next meeting time**  
Next meeting is 12 December 11.00-12.00 (CET).
