> ## Agenda:
>
> 1. Approve minutes from last meeting
> 2. Report from maintainers meeting
> 3. Working groups and working group leaders
> 4. Appointment of maintainers
> 5. According to the governance document we need to officially appoint the maintainers.
> 6. Roles on Github - Maybe we need to go through the list of the current members and modify roles so not everyone has full permissions to all repositories anymore but only to the parts that they should be allowed to modify based on their role according to the governance document?
> 7. pyAML license
> 8. Specification documents
> 9. Level of bluesky integration
> 10. Next meeting time
> 11. Approve minutes from this meeting


### Participants 

Ilya Agapov – DESY   
Konstantinos Paraschou - DESY (Deputy)   
Simon White - ESRF   
Patrick Madela - Synchrotron SOLEIL (Deputy)     
Laurent Nadolski - Synchrotron SOLEIL  
Marco Apollonio – MAX IV (Deputy)  
Stephen Molloy - MAX IV (Deputy)   
Markus Ries – HZB  
Teresia Olsson – HZB (Chair)  
Ronja Grünke – HZB (Notes)    


## 1. Approve Minutes from Last Meeting   
Changes to the Minutes will be notes in ***bold italics***

Summary and Action Items from the last Minutes:   

**1.1 Organisation:**
- Teresia was appointed chair for one year (to 29. April 2026)
- Monthly Steering Board meeting schedule of 1 hour meeting every 4 weeks on Fridays 11:00 - 12:00 was decided on
- Idea: Test minutes life during the meeting with support of Ronja 
- Minutes will be published on github for the Steering Board 
- Placement of the agenda on Github or indico was discussed. ***placement on Github was decided on by ___??***</font>

**1.2 Email Lists**
- Two additional emails lists:
  -  One for the steering committee with all our email addresses
  -  Second one as a contact email for people who want to get in touch with the steering committee and need a single point of entry. It was decided that Teresia should be on this contact email as a start and then perhaps a second person too. ***second person decided??***
- Someone needs to keep administering the existing community email list ***name?***
- Simon will talk to Simone about this and check if all of the three email lists can be set up and administered by ESRF. ***did this happen?***

**1.3 Communication with the Community**
- ReadMe on Github is not working so well. A calendar is missing.
- Teresia will investigte if a Github page can be set up. ***did this happen?***

**1.4 Maintainers Meeting and Working Groups**
- First meeting on May 22, 2025
- The meeting should collect interested candidates for being working group leaders. This should also be reported to the steering committee on the 23 May and they will appoint the leaders.
- A person needs to be appointed to be the link between maintainers group and steering committe. Decision should be made on the next meeting.
- For results see paragraph 2. 

**1.5. Specification Documents**
- Document 1: tutorial document
- Document 2: specification document
- Decision: keep monitoring the process.
  Teresia is involved in the weekly discussion meetings about the tutorial document and also working on extracting the requirements to include in spec. document

**1.6 Date for next Community Meeting**
  - Thursday every 3 months
  - Teresia will come up with a suggestion for the date and can call to it. ***did this happen?***

**1.7  Memorandum of Understanding**
- MoU is not needed, LoS instead
- Ilya, Simon and Laurent to provide templates
- Teresia to set up overleaf: https://www.overleaf.com/project/68189102616618255fe525af

**1.8 License**
- License should be as permissive as possible so we do not run into compatibility issues with other codes
- pyAT decided to go for Apache 2.0, seems to be a good option
- Teresia to  send out an email on the community email list to give all labs a chance to object
- Decision will be found at the next meeting
  

## 2. Report from maintainers meeting   
2.1 Chose a Chair to call the meetings and gather the agenda: -> ***name***
2.2 Chose a Secretary to write the minutes: -> ***name***   


3. Working groups and working group leaders
as suggested in the maintainers meeting: 

Working Groups:
      WG 1: ***ideas***   
      WG 2: ***ideas***  
      
Working Group Leaders:
      WG 1: ***name****   
      WG 2: ***name***   
  


> 
> 4. Appointment of maintainers
> 5. According to the governance document we need to officially appoint the maintainers.
> 6. Roles on Github - Maybe we need to go through the list of the current members and modify roles so not everyone has full permissions to all repositories anymore but only to the parts that they should be allowed to modify based on their role according to the governance document?
> 7. pyAML license
> 8. Specification documents
> 9. Level of bluesky integration
> 10. Next meeting time
> 11. Approve minutes from this meeting
