Agenda:

1. Approve minutes from last meeting
2. Support letter for accMeta
3. Report from maintainers meeting
4. Working groups and working group leaders
5. Appointment of maintainers
6. Roles on Github
7. pyAML license
8. Specification documents
9. Level of bluesky integration
10. Next meeting time
  Next meeting is planned to 20 June 2025 11.00-12.00 CEST.
11. Approve minutes from this meeting
  
&nbsp;
&nbsp;

#### Participants
Ilya Agapov – DESY  - not available 
Konstantinos Paraschou - DESY (Deputy)  
Simon White - ESRF  
Patrick Madela - Synchrotron SOLEIL (Deputy)  
Laurent Nadolski - Synchrotron SOLEIL  
Marco Apollonio – MAX IV (Deputy)  
Stephen Molloy - MAX IV (Deputy)  
Markus Ries – HZB  
Teresia Olsson – HZB (Chair)  
Ronja Grünke – HZB (Notes)
Pierre Schnizer - HZB (Report Maintainers Meeting) 

&nbsp;
&nbsp;

#### Approve minutes from last meeting
- Approved without notes, Theresia will upload 

#### Support letter for accMeta
- "librarian cards for Data Age"
- HZB will take over organizing and documentation
- ![grafik](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/f3216011-a86b-4444-8c07-427f583c5eff)
- 


HZB and KIT are applying to the Helmholtz Metadata Collaboration Call. The project concerns developing a common metadata standard for accelerators, towards a future ontology. No funding or resources are required from pyAML but they are asking for a support letter for the application. Deadline is 30 May 2025.

#### Report from maintainers meeting

#### Working groups and working group leaders

#### Appointment of maintainers
[maintainers_to_elect.md](maintainers_to_elect.md)


- Yoshiteru Hidaka
- Gayane Amatuni
- Konstantinous Paraschou
- Martin Gaughran
- Simone Liuzzo
- Jean-Luc Pons
- Teresia Olsson
- Pierre Schnizer
- Waheedullah Sulaiman Khail
- Patrick Schreiber
- Julian Gethmann
- Edmund Blomley
- Asım Soylu
- Hasan Sansar
- Alexis Gamelin
- Guillaume Pichon
- Vadim Gubaidulin
- Jacek Biernat
- Mikołaj Wróbel


#### Roles on Github
Maybe we need to go through the list of the current members and modify roles so not everyone has full permissions to all repositories anymore but only to the parts that they should be allowed to modify based on their role according to the governance document?

Suggestions for github roles: [github_roles.md](github_roles.md)

1. Only members of the steering committee should be owner of the organisation
2. For the existing repositories for exploratory projects the contributors to those projects should be made admin for the repository
3. A team should be created for the pyAML maintainers and this team should have admin permissions to the pyAML repositories.


#### pyAML license

#### Specification documents

#### Level of bluesky integration

#### Next meeting time: 20 June 2025 11.00-12.00 CEST.

#### Approve minutes from this meeting
