**Meeting Agenda:**

1. Approve minutes from last meeting 
2. Support letter for accMeta 
3. Report from maintainers meeting 
4. Working groups and working group leaders 
5. Appointment of maintainers  
6. Roles on Github 
7. pyAML license 
8. Specification documents 
9. Level of bluesky integration 
10. Next meeting time
11. Approve minutes from this meeting 

**Participants**

Ilya Agapov – DESY    
Konstantinos Paraschou - DESY (Deputy)    
Simon White - ESRF    
Patrick Madela - Synchrotron SOLEIL (Deputy) - not available     
Laurent Nadolski - Synchrotron SOLEIL    
Marco Apollonio – MAX IV - not available     
Stephen Molloy - MAX IV (Deputy) - not available     
Markus Ries – HZB (Deputy)   
Teresia Olsson – HZB (Chair)   
Ronja Grünke – HZB (Notes)     
Pierre Schnizer - HZB (For points about accMeta and Report from Maintainers Meeting)    

**1. Approve Minutes from last meeting**

- Approved with no notes. 
  - *Action needed by Teresia: Upload the notes*.

**2. Support Letter for accMeta**

- HZB and KIT are applying to the Helmholtz Metadata Collaboration Call. The project concerns developing a common metadata standard for accelerators, towards a future ontology.
- A letter of support by pyAML ia considered helpful for the proposal. It is not an issue that pyAML is not an official entity.
  - *Action needed by Teresia: Send out letter of support template, to be signed before May 30, 2025*

**3. Report from Maintainers Meeting**

- Meeting discussion was summarized by Pierre Schnizer.
- Minutes were sent out to participants and committee.
- People proposed for leading roles and people on the maintainers list are ready to commit time to the roles.  
- A fast feedback loop between core team and testing team is needed.
- The following role proposals were discussed and accepted:
- Coordinator: Waheedullah Sulaiman Khail
- WG Core: Jean-Luc Pons
- WG Testing:  Vadim Gubaidulin
- Secretary: Pierre Schnizer

    - *Action needed by Maintainers: A short description of the roles should be provided by the proposed people. The Steering committee will review them.* 
    - *Action needed by Maintainer: A more descriptive name for the "Testing" work group is needed.* 
    - *Action needed by Maintainer: A timeline for the exploration phase and prototype phase to Feb 2026 should be set. After this deadline, new working groups should be defined.* 
    - *Action needed by Maintainer: A list of Deliverables (short list of bullet points) and working group contents (description in 2 sentences) should be generated. The steering committee will review them.*  

**4. Appointment of Maintainers**

The following maintainers were appointed:
- Yoshiteru Hidaka
- Gayane Amatuni
- Konstantinous Paraschou
- Martin Gaughran
- Simone Liuzzo
- Jean-Luc Pons
- Teresia Olsson
- Pierre Schnizer
- Waheedullah Sulaiman Khail
- Patrick Schreiber
- Julian Gethmann
- Edmund Blomley
- Asım Soylu
- Hasan Sansar
- Alexis Gamelin
- Guillaume Pichon
- Vadim Gubaidulin
- Jacek Biernat
- Mikołaj Wróbel

**5. Roles in Github**
- Teams and responsibilities for repositories need to be defined.
  - *Action needed: Older repositories should be cleaned up / moved, so the current setup can be used for the official pyAML organization.*
  - *Action needed by Teresia: Project participants will be informed by Teresia and roles will be assigned.*

**6. pyAML License**  
- Only one feedback concerning the scientific library.  
  - *The proposal from the last meeting, use of Apache 2.0, was accepted.*  

**7. Specification Documents**  
- Currently not many labs involved in the specification process.
- All interested parties have been invited to contribute, open questions have been answered.
    - *Action needed by all project participants: Draft versions of the documents should be available by end of May. This should cover the aspects of importance for the prototype.*
    - *Action needed by steering committee: Approval process by end of the year needed.*

**8. Level of bluesky Integration**
- Background information and opinions have been exchanged via e-mail.  
    - *Discussion was done and further discussion postponed.*  
    - *Action needed by Teresia: Prepare a summary of useful functionality for further discussion.*

 
**9. Next meeting time**
- It was decided to move the next meeting by one week. New date:
    - *June 27, 2025 11.00-12.00 CEST*


**10. Approve minutes**
  - *Publicly available minutes shall focus on decisions and action items.*
  - *They will be uploaded on the day of the meeting and approved fast, within a week at most.*
  - *After approval, they will be re-named from draft.*
    
