> Agenda:
>
> 1. Approve minutes from last meeting
> 2. Report from maintainers meeting
> 3. Working groups and working group leaders
> 4. Appointment of maintainers
> 5. According to the governance document we need to officially appoint the maintainers.
> 6. Roles on Github - Maybe we need to go through the list of the current members and modify roles so not everyone has full permissions to all repositories anymore but only to the parts that they should be allowed to modify based on their role according to the governance document?
> 7. pyAML license
> 8. Specification documents
> 9. Level of bluesky integration
> 10. Next meeting time
> 11. Approve minutes from this meeting


### Participants 

Ilya Agapov – DESY   
Konstantinos Paraschou - DESY (Deputy)   
Simon White - ESRF   
Patrick Madela - Synchrotron SOLEIL (Deputy)     
Laurent Nadolski - Synchrotron SOLEIL  
Marco Apollonio – MAX IV (Deputy)  
Stephen Molloy - MAX IV (Deputy)   
Markus Ries – HZB  
Teresia Olsson – HZB (Chair)  
Ronja Grünke – HZB (Notes)    



### 1. Approve Minutes from last meeting   
Changes to the Minutes will be notes in ***bold italics***

Summary and Action Items from the last Minutes:   

1. Organisation:
- Teresia was appointed chair for one year (to 29. April 2026)
- Monthly Steering Board meeting schedule of 1 hour meeting every 4 weeks on Fridays 11:00 - 12:00 was decided on
- Idea: Test minutes life during the meeting with support of Ronja 
- Minutes will be published on github for the Steering Board 
- Placement of the agenda on Github or indico was discussed. ***placement on Github was decided on by ___??***

2. Email lists
- Two additional emails lists:
  -  One for the steering committee with all our email addresses
  -  Second one as a contact email for people who want to get in touch with the steering committee and need a single point of entry. It was decided that Teresia should be on this contact email as a start and then perhaps a second person too. ***second person decided??***
- Someone needs to keep administer the existing community email list
- Simon will talk to Simone about this and check if all of the three email lists can be set up and administered by ESRF. ***did this happen?***

3. Communication with the community
- ReadMe on Github is not working so well. A calendar is missing.
- Teresia will invstigte if a Github page can be set up. ***did this happen?***

4. Maintainers meeting and working groups
- First meeting on May 22
- The meeting should collect interested candidates for being working group leaders. This should also be reported to the steering committee on the 23 May and they will appoint the leaders.
- A person needs to be appointed to be the link between maintainers group and steering committe. Decision should be made on the next meeting.

5. Specification Documents
- 



### 2. Report from maintainers meeting
Topics:
- Meeting was to discuss working groups and understand the interests of the different people who have signed up to be maintainers.#
  2.1 Chose a Chair to call the meetings and gather the agenda: ***name***
  2.2 Chose a Secretary to write the minutes: ***name***
  2.3 Come up with suggestion for Working Groups for the steering committee to decide on: 
      WG 1: ***ideas***
      WG 2: ***ideas***
   2.4 Come up with suggestion for Working Group Leaders for the steering committee to decide on:
      WG 1: ***name****
      WG 2: ***name***
  

