**Meeting Agenda:**

1. Approve minutes from last meeting 
2. Support letter for accMeta 
3. Report from maintainers meeting 
4. Working groups and working group leaders 
5. Appointment of maintainers  
6. Roles on Github 
7. pyAML license 
8. Specification documents 
9. Level of bluesky integration 
10. Next meeting time Next meeting is planned to 20 June 2025 11.00-12.00 CEST. 
11. Approve minutes from this meeting 
<br><br> 

**Participants**

Ilya Agapov – DESY    
Konstantinos Paraschou - DESY (Deputy)    
Simon White - ESRF    
Patrick Madela - Synchrotron SOLEIL (Deputy) - not available     
Laurent Nadolski - Synchrotron SOLEIL    
Marco Apollonio – MAX IV (Deputy) - not available     
Stephen Molloy - MAX IV (Deputy) - not available     
Markus Ries – HZB    
Teresia Olsson – HZB (Chair)   
Ronja Grünke – HZB (Notes)     
Pierre Schnizer - HZB (Report Maintainers Meeting)    
<br><br>

**1. Approve Minutes from last meeting**

- Approved with no notes. 
  - *Action needed: Teresia to upload them*.
<br><br>

**2. Support Letter for accMeta**

- HZB and KIT are applying to the Helmholtz Metadata Collaboration Call. The project concerns developing a common metadata standard for accelerators, towards a future ontology.
- A letter of support by pyAML ia considered helpful for the proposal. It is not an issue that pyAML is not an official entity.
  - *Teresia to send out letter of support template, to be signed before May 30, 2025*
<br><br>

**3. Report from Maintainers Meeting**

- Meeting discussion was summarized by Pierre Schnitzer.
- Minutes were sent out to participants and committe.
- People proposed for leading roles and people on the maintainers list are ready to commit time to the roles.  
- A fast feedback loop between core team and testing team is needed.
- The following role proposals were discussed and accepted:
- Coordinator: Waheedullah Sulaiman Khail
- WP Core: Jean-Luc Pons
- WP Testing:  Vadim Gubaidulin
- Secretary: Pierre Schnizer

    - *Action needed: A short description of the roles should be provided by the proposed people. The Steering committee will review them.* 
    - *Action needed: A more descriptive name for the "Testing" work group is needed.* 
    - *Action needed: A timeline for the exploration phase and prototype phase to Feb 2026 should be set. After this deadline, new working groups should be defined.* 
    - *Action needed: A list of Deliverables and WP (description in 2 sentences each) contents should be generated.The Steering committee will review them.*  
<br><br>

**4. Appointment of Maintainers**
maintainers_to_elect.md
- List approved with no notes.
<br><br>

**5. Roles in Github**
- Teams and responsibilites for repositories need to be defined.
  - *Action needed: Older Repositories should be cleaned up / moved, so the current setup can be used for the official pyAML organizaion. Project participants will be informed by Teresia and roles will be assigned.*
<br><br>

**6. pyAML License**  
- Only one feedback concerning the scientific library.  
  - *The proposal from the last meeting, use of Apache 2.0, was accepted.*  
<br><br>

**7. Specification Document**  
- Currently not many labs involved in the specification process.
- All interested parties have been invited to contribute, open questions have been answered.
    - *Action needed: Draft version of the document should be available by end of May.*
    - *Action needed: Approval process by end of the year needed.*
<br><br>

**8. Level of bluesky Integration**
- Background information and opinions have been exchanged via e-mail.  
    - *The discussion was postponed.*  
    - *Action needed: Teresia to prepare a summary of needed functions for further discussion.*
 





