 ## pyAML maintainers' meeting notes
 
**Date:** December 12, 2025  
**Time:** 15:00 (CEST)  
**Participants**: Jean-Luc Pons (ESRF), Simone Maria Liuzzo (ESRF), Teresia Olsson (HZB),  Vadim Gubaidulin (SOLEIL),
Alexis Gamelin (SOLEIL), Alexandre Moutardier (SOLEIL), Yoshiteru Hidaka (BNL), Waheedullah Sulaiman Khail (HZB, end of meeting)

# Next Meeting will be on January 23rd at 15:00 !!!

---
### Workshop working environment discussion
- VG talked about the working environment container from Patrick Madela with a digital twin
- Several participants underlined that for them ideal situation will be to have a digital twin in a container and the pyAML python environment they will have on their laptop. 
- VG will ask Patrick Madela to join efforts with TO and SML for the session preparing the hackathon
  
### Workshop remote participation
- VG: Registation for remote participation is now open (fee 50EUR)
- Everyone: it is allowed to advertise remote participation beyond just the Americas to see if there is some engagement
- VG: In general, there should not be a problem to share the MS Teams link with someone who wants to just follow the presentations
- A fully remote working group will be formed for the Americas participants

### Workshop organisation
- VG presented the agenda draft with details of each contribution
- Hackathon working group topics were discussed
- VG encouraged everyone (especially JLP and WSK) to share their ideas for the working groups via email
- Some ideas were shared during the meeting for the working groups
- VG will communicate with the steering committee in the coming days with a fleshed out agenda and working group descriptions


