Agenda:

- How to organize the work of the steering committee? Who calls to meetings, when/how often should meetings be, are minutes needed/who writes them? etc

- How to contact the steering committee? Contact person/email list?

- Management of the pyAML email list (so far Simone has done this)

- Communication with the community, e.g. webpage where we can put a calendar and minutes (github pages? https://pages.github.com/)

- Nomination of WG leaders (this assumes WG have already been defined)

- Validation of specification document, this step is important to be done before implementation start as it define what shall be implemented and the interface

- Date for next community meeting. Who calls to community meetings? (so far Simone has done this)

- Memorandum of understanding. Do we need this? What should it include? Who writes the draft?

- License for pyAML. What constraints/requirements do we have from the different labs?
